[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hello.
I'm Lisa Garr.
Welcome to "Gaiam Inspirations."
We're coming to you live from
Boulder, Colorado at the Gaiam
studios here.
And since this is a live and
interactive show, communicate
with us-- Facebook, Twitter.
Thousands of you already are.
You've got a ton of
questions flooding in.
So keep going with
this, because we
want to stay connected with
you throughout the show.
So, did you know
that your words have
an enormous amount of power?
And the words that you tell
yourself, the thoughts that you
tell yourself, produce
100% of the results you
get in your life.
So when you tell yourself
negative thoughts,
you produce negative results.
And if you tell yourself
positive thoughts,
you produce positive
results in your life.
So would you like to
see this in action?
Joining me today to help us
explore the power of words
is Doreen Virtue.
And not only does Doreen
have a Ph.D. In psychology,
she's also a
lifelong clairvoyant.
She works with
the angelic realm.
And Doreen his
appeared on "Oprah,"
"The View," CNN,
many other programs,
talking about the
power of your words.
Welcome, Doreen Virtue.
>>DOREEN VIRTUE: Hi, Lisa.
It's great to be with you.
>>LISA: Great to
be with you, too.
>>VIRTUE: Thanks.
>>LISA: Tell me a little
bit about your background
as a psychologist.
>>VIRTUE: Right.
Well, I became a psychotherapist
by going through college
and got a BA, MA, and Ph.D.
in counseling psychology
and started out as an addictions
therapist at the care unit
working with drug
addicts and alcoholics.
My clinical dream was to work
with eating disordered women
and so ended up fulfilling that,
both outpatient and inpatient
in California and Tennessee.
>>LISA: Why specifically
women with eating disorders?
>>VIRTUE: I was very
interested in it.
I think growing up in Southern
California, where there's
a lot of pressure on
weight consciousness,
I had just witnessed a
lot of my girlfriends
killing themselves to
lose weight or yo-yoing.
So it's been something I've
been studying my whole life.
I'm still very passionate about
food and weight and health
and how this affects the spirit.
>>LISA: So how did you
transition from that
into the angelic realm?
>>VIRTUE: Well,
it's interesting.
As you mentioned, I'm
a lifelong clairvoyant.
I grew up seeing angels
and deceased people very,
very clearly.
And I had a guide who would
take me on these journeys
when I was asleep and
sometimes when I was awake
and show me things, like the
future and my life purpose.
And my whole life, since I was
raised by a spiritual healer,
and her mom was a
spiritual healer,
and I was raised in
this very nurturing,
metaphysical household, I
knew that my life purpose
was to teach about
mind-body-spirit connection.
They had told me.
But growing up in that kind of
atmosphere, I was teased a lot.
It was the 1960s
and '70s when they
didn't have Gaiam TV
or the "Aware" show.
And so people weren't as
open minded back then.
And so I did the
next best thing,
and I became a psychotherapist,
which seemed like a way
to help people spiritually
in a kind of socially
acceptable manner.
>>LISA: When you say that
you see guides and beings,
you see them in
the physical form,
like you're seeing me right now?
>>VIRTUE: Well, I see
them-- as a child,
I saw deceased people
as clearly as I see you.
And they were
three-dimensional, full-color.
They would stare
at me wordlessly.
And they weren't relatives
that I recognized.
These were people
who I now realize
were coming to me because
they knew I could see them.
And they were stuck on earth.
They were earth-bounds.
Now when I do mediumship,
I still see them,
but it's a little
more translucent.
I need to be this way to
function in the world.
>>LISA: Mm.
So that you could see the
difference between what's real
and what's not.
>>VIRTUE: Exactly.
>>LISA: When you say
that they came to you
and they're
earth-bounds, were they
looking for questions,
help, assistance?
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, well
the deceased people
didn't know they had passed on.
So they were stuck here.
And they were looking
for other people
to connect to who
would see them.
And they go frequently
to psychic children,
because most children are born
like I was with second sight.
And back then, my
parents were unusual
because they allowed me just
keep my spiritual side open.
Back in those days, it
was common for parents
to say it was scary to
have invisible children--
invisible friends.
Or they would even
take their kids
to therapists or
psychiatric wards.
Nowadays, parents have
shifted completely,
and they encourage
their children
to keep their second sight open.
And so it's a whole
different world for children.
>>LISA: It's so interesting.
You have such an amazing
following of people.
You've written 30 books.
>>VIRTUE: I think it's
upwards of 70 now.
>>LISA: 70 books?
>>VIRTUE: I'm pretty sure, yeah.
I have lost track.
>>LISA: Way off there.
>>VIRTUE: Maybe someone will
count the number on Amazon
and type it to us today.
>>LISA: Oh my God.
And Angel Course.
You have a huge volume.
But for people that don't know
of your work, when they hear
you talking about
angels and guides,
there's two things
that could happen.
One, they could go, I had
that experience and someone
is putting it to words.
And oh, my god, it's real.
And other people
that are skeptical
would say, how
does she know that?
How do you know this?
>>VIRTUE: Right.
Well, I only know my own truth.
I mean, that's all we all know.
And I encourage people to
follow their own truth.
I'm really not here to convince
anyone that angels are real
or convert them.
We don't worship angels.
I simply am telling people what
I have perceived my whole life.
And that is that every
single human being
has these personal guides
with them who are there
to protect you and to help
you to remember who you are,
why you're here, and to
stay on the path of love.
Now, it's obvious
that a lot of people
don't listen to these guides
or aren't aware of them,
or we'd have no evil.
The evening news would be
a whole different activity
if everyone listened
to their angels.
I'm doing my little
part by teaching people
how to connect with
their own angels.
Because we all can do this.
>>LISA: And that is
something that you teach.
And this could be
intention setting.
This could mimic prayer.
It could mimic all
sorts of things.
>>VIRTUE: Right.
>>LISA: And it's--
and historically,
it has been shown that angels
are in so many different
ancient texts, right?
>>VIRTUE: It is.
It's an ancient
archetype that goes back.
Definitely the three
monotheistic religions
all recognize what
we call angels.
The pantheistic and the ones
that have the many deities,
such as Hinduism
or Buddhism, they
recognize something like angels.
They just have a different
take on it than we do.
But every religion has a
belief in a benevolent guide
who's with you.
And it's because it's real.
>>LISA: One of the Facebook
questions coming in --
and there's so many
of them-- asks,
what do you say about the
direction that we're going
as a species and are we on
track towards a healthier future
as a species?
>>VIRTUE: Thank goodness we are.
>>LISA: We are?
>>VIRTUE: I mentioned
as a child I
was taken by this old man
who is one of my guides.
And he would take me
to these-- I still
remember how vivid these
things he showed me were.
He showed me the future.
And--
>>LISA: How old were you?
>>VIRTUE: When this
happened I must
have been 3, 4, through 7 or 9.
>>LISA: Oh, you remember,
then, this vividly.
>>VIRTUE: I can
still see the colors.
They weren't dreams.
These were real experiences.
But I was in bed, asleep.
It was soul travel
I was going on.
>>LISA: And what did you see?
>>VIRTUE: Well, he
showed me the future
of the world that's
very pleasant, actually.
He showed me global
warming, I realize now.
At the time, there
was no term like that.
But he showed me the
heating up of the center
of the Earth and the lava
flow, a lot of lava going on.
And just the heating
up of the Earth
and that the whole world
would become tropical
and that it would create
this melting of the polar ice
caps that would--
actually, of course
it's tragic about the polar
bears and everything with that.
I feel just like everyone.
But what he showed me was that
it would create a fresh water
supply at a time in this Earth's
history when we would need it.
Because the regular
drinking supply
would be diminished
and polluted.
>>LISA: And tainted, yes.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, and
he showed me that we
would have tropical
fruit growing pretty
much around the
world and that we
would begin to be more
fruitarian type of eaters.
>>LISA: And the
tropical environment
is because of the heating
up and the humidity.
>>VIRTUE: The humidity, right.
And it's very similar to
the beginning of the Earth,
was very tropical like that.
So it's a way for the Earth to
cleanse, is what he showed me.
>>LISA: You used an
interesting term there.
You said soul journey?
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, soul journey is
when you go to sleep at night,
and you know when you wake
up in the morning you've
been somewhere.
And when you start
to consciously work
with that experience,
you can direct it.
You can be very aware
when it's happening.
And most people, I
find, have had that.
In fact, many, many
people daily on Facebook
tell me that I connect with
them in these soul journeys.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>VIRTUE: And I do
that consciously.
I do teaching and also receive
teachings at what we call
"at night."
>>LISA: That's great.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
>>LISA: So you do night classes.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, oh yeah.
All around the world.
>>LISA: Free.
>>VIRTUE: For free, yeah.
>>LISA: That's good to know.
So one of the things
that you've taught--
and you did a great
study with your son--
about the power of words.
>>VIRTUE: Absolutely, yeah.
>>LISA: And we were
talking about this earlier,
about the frequency.
How did you conduct these tests?
>>VIRTUE: Well, it began with
me speaking into a computer
and my son watching the words
to see if I was going too loud
or if the treble was too high.
>>LISA: On an audio screen.
>>VIRTUE: On the
computer, yeah, yeah.
And so I was
recording a podcast.
And when I said the word
"angel," Grant, my son,
stopped me and said, Mom, when
you said the word "angel,"
it looks like an
angel in flight.
>>LISA: Oh, let's
take a look at that.
We have a slide of this.
>>VIRTUE: This is from
a computer program
similar to Dragon Speak.
>>LISA: OK.
And this is actually-- it
looks like an angel in flight.
>>VIRTUE: Mhm.
Yup.
Yeah, you can see the wingspan.
I mean, it takes a
little imagination,
but it looks like the angel
is flying to your left,
and it's got the
tail from behind.
And so this intrigued
me, because I'm always--
my mind works in seeing
patterns of different behaviors
or situations.
So I said, Grant, let's record
all different kinds of words
and phrases and see if we
find any more patterns.
We didn't know what
we were going to find.
But pretty quickly, we started
to find this unusual pattern,
that when we'd say a word that
was universally considered
positive, the word
graph would be
very large on either side
of this center line that's
on the computer graph.
And then when we'd
say a word that
would be universally
considered negative,
the word would be
very tight and small.
And we were literally seeing
the graphs of high vibrations
and low vibrations in words.
>>LISA: Yes.
It's all about frequency.
>>VIRTUE: Right.
So this has been talked
about for a long time.
This is not new information
in terms of the words.
I mean, Jesus spoke
about this all the time.
Socrates did.
Abraham Hicks has
talked about it.
And my friend-- and
our friend Masaru Emoto
showed it in water crystals.
But this is the first
I'm aware of that we've
seen exactly what
words look like.
And writing this book,
"Angel Words," that
collects all the graphs
in there changed our life.
We absolutely are consciously
choosing positive words
to say everything now.
>>LISA: This will make
a massive impact on you.
Take a look at
what this slide is.
It's what a woman said when
she wasn't making any money.
>>VIRTUE: Right, right.
So we interviewed people
who changed their life
by changing the
words that they say.
And this was a waitress
who had been complaining
that she wasn't getting
enough customers or tip money.
And so that was
being true for her.
And then she realized
it and she changed
to a more positive
way of saying it,
and more customers
started to come in.
So you can see from this
graph how tightly constricted
the lines are around
the center line.
And that shows it's
low vibrational.
>>LISA: And so then when
she changed her words,
this is what it looked like.
>>VIRTUE: Wow.
So she started to affirm that
there's a flow of abundance.
And you can see the huge
difference in energy.
And sure enough, it
corresponded to her experience,
where it's not
esoteric woo-woo magic.
It's just a matter of
when you are positive,
more people and more experiences
are attracted to you.
So more customers came to her.
And she was happy because
she got more tips.
>>LISA: So this is an example
of how anybody could basically
change their language.
And basically what that precedes
is changing your thoughts
to change your language to
change and effect your life.
>>VIRTUE: Exactly.
Mhm.
Yeah, it's a matter of being
conscious of what you say.
Sometimes it's helpful to have
a word partner, a word buddy.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
>>VIRTUE: Because we tend to say
negative phrases out of habit
and not realize that it's
creating very negative results.
>>LISA: It keeps you authentic.
Here's an example of one of the
slides that shows the example
side by side of,
"I'll never be rich,"
or, "This place is a gold mine."
Where did this come from?
>>VIRTUE: This is
actually an owner
of a metaphysical
bookstore who said
she should have known better.
But she wanted to be
humble when people
would ask her how business was.
So she would affirm that
she'll never be rich.
And again, look
at how low energy
that is on the computer graph.
And she consequently
wasn't selling very much.
People would come in, but
they would never buy anything.
She caught it, and
she changed her words
to "this place is a gold
mine" and absolutely
had an instant turn
around in sales.
>>LISA: Did she really?
>>VIRTUE: Instant.
Yeah,
>>LISA: So she was able to
manifest more sales just by--
>>VIRTUE: Just by saying,
"This place is a gold mine."
But look at how high energy
that is in comparison
to the other one.
And again, it's
not woo-woo magic.
People like to go into stores
and homes and buildings
where there's a good vibe.
We're getting more
sensitive these days.
We can feel these things.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
That's one of things I love
about Gaiam is that the colors
and everything
about this network
has such a beautiful
vibration with it.
Specifically, so the
words that you say
create a frequency, right?
And then the vibration
then goes out
and it hits up
against whatever it
is that you're trying to create.
And then it comes back.
Is that the way that--
>>VIRTUE: Yeah,
that's a part of it.
Part of it is physiological.
When you say a word
that's low vibrating,
it literally makes
your muscles tense.
And it constricts you.
And you don't get
as much blood flow
to the brain or oxygen flow.
And so you're not as accessible
to hearing divine guidance
or getting great ideas.
>>LISA: That make sense.
Yes.
>>VIRTUE: So your
creativity is impaired
when you say negative words.
>>LISA: And this also
impacts us on a health level.
>>VIRTUE: Absolutely.
>>LISA: There's a slide here
that we have where if you tell
the difference, when you get
a cold and you're not feeling
very good and you say, "I am
sick"-- so sick is obviously--
you tell me. [LAUGHS]
>>VIRTUE: Yeah,
very low vibrating.
Very, very low vibrating.
And just saying that word
makes you feel that way.
And then there's always a
positive way to say everything.
So you can talk
about your health
and still be honest
in a positive way.
>>LISA: Well, what
if you have a fever
and you're pretty much
feeling miserable?
>>VIRTUE: There's a way
to distance yourself
from affirming.
Because everything you
say is an affirmation.
Instead of saying, "I have
a fever," you can say,
"I seem to be having the
experience of a higher
temperature."
>>LISA: OK
>>VIRTUE: And just
by distancing instead
of "I am" or "I have," it really
detaches you from that label.
>>LISA: So you're not owning it.
>>VIRTUE: Manifesting
it, exactly.
Mhm.
And plus, when you
say that, other people
then start to see you as sick.
They put that intention on you.
And they manifest it for you.
>>LISA: How could doctors
change their languaging?
>>VIRTUE: They already are.
There's been so many studies
now that absolutely-- we don't
use the word "prove,"
but certainly
significantly correlate
prayer and what a doctor says,
especially in a surgery
room, to the outcome.
It was recently suggested in the
JMA, the Journal of the Medical
Association, that it
would be malpractice
to not pray for your patients.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness!
That is groundbreaking.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
>>LISA: And refreshing.
>>VIRTUE: I think so.
>>LISA: I would love to have--
if I was in that situation,
knowing that I had a surgeon
over me who was intentionally
praying for the outcome,
I mean, why wouldn't he?
>>VIRTUE: Absolutely.
>>LISA: Once you know
this, it's almost--
it's like you can't not do it.
>>VIRTUE: Well,
it's interesting.
I meet so many medical
doctors, and they
are open to all of this.
Because they see life
and death situations.
They see the power of the spirit
helping people to stay alive.
And so they believe.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
So this is another
very common phrase.
>>VIRTUE: Yes, there you go.
This is like the little
story from childhood,
"I think I can"-- "The Little--
>>LISA: Engine that Could."
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, "The
Engine that Could."
So when you say, "I can,"
even if you don't believe it--
because we use the
variable, do you
have to believe this to
have the high vibration?
We recorded certain
positive words
with an angry voice, a sad
voice, and an anxious voice,
and it was always still the same
results of very high vibrating
peaks above and below
the center line.
So here's "I can," and look at
just super, super high energy.
So it would give you the
energy to move through fears
or procrastination
tendencies, versus "I can't."
You might as well just
give up right there.
>>LISA: It's very,
very-- it seems
like it's affirming
the negative,
if that's a possible
thing to do.
>>VIRTUE: This is pulling
yourself up by your bootstraps.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>VIRTUE: I mean, instead
of blaming outside entities,
if you say, "I
can," you can make
a huge, positive difference in
this world instead of saying,
someone should do something
about the environment or this
or that.
I can do it.
>>LISA: So once again,
it's about keeping
yourself accountable.
And I wonder what "Just
do it" looks like.
There's so many different
phrases out there.
>>VIRTUE: We had fun with this.
We really did, yeah.
>>LISA: This shows
the difference
between the negative words
and what exactly they show,
how low the vibration is
on the negative words.
Let's take a look at this.
The word "addiction."
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, so
we chose as many
what we consider to be
universally-considered negative
words as possible.
And so we chose "addiction."
You can see that it's got
very, very low energy, not
the lowest.
And "worry" seemed to be the
most low energy that we had.
You can see how
tightly constricted
that is, just like
when you worry.
Your lips purse up, your
forehead gets all wrinkled.
And it just looks
like what it is.
We thought "drugs"
would be low vibrating,
but interestingly, you can see
there's a high peak on the top.
And what we discovered
is because that word
can be used for both
positive or negative.
And the energy reflects that.
>>LISA: This could also have
to do with our self-talk
as well, our negative
self-talk, even
if we don't verbalize
these words.
It has the same effect on us?
>>VIRTUE: It definitely does.
When you think these words,
it affects your physiology.
I mean, we put in this book,
"Angel Words," a number of very
well-done scientific studies
about words, including words
in the surgery room, that we
find have effects on your blood
pressure, your heart rate.
Physiological is
definitely affected.
>>LISA: Even cliches.
>>VIRTUE: Oh, yeah, cliches.
>>LISA: "Break a leg"
and things like that.
>>VIRTUE: Yup, yeah.
So we've rewritten
the old cliches,
which you can see
are low vibrating,
and put positive examples of
things you could do instead.
In fact, people tell me they're
giving this book, "Angel
Words," to their complaining
relatives as a gift.
>>LISA: It's a beautiful book.
>>VIRTUE: Thank you.
>>LISA: It's a nice gift.
[BOTH LAUGH]
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
>>LISA: And you don't realize
the pack that it punches.
The idea is here to
change the old paradigm.
>>VIRTUE: Right.
>>LISA: And I believe
that's what you've
talked about many
times, changing
the old energy, the dominating,
the competitive, energy.
>>VIRTUE: Well,
that's why we're here.
I mean, that's what we
all signed up to do,
is usher out that old
energy, like you said,
of competition, the belief
in lack and limitation,
the belief that
I better get mine
before you get yours,
and suffering for money.
That's old, old energy
that's completely on its way
out, thank goodness.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>VIRTUE: And the new energy is
cooperation, win-win for all.
If I win, you win.
And knowing there's
an abundance.
And that the more I manifest,
the more that I can help you.
I can help my favorite charity.
I can help homeless
people, et cetera.
>>LISA: And it becomes
effortless for you.
And you become a
model for us to be
able to see something like that.
>>VIRTUE: Absolutely.
We all need to be role models
of peace and role models
of that this stuff works.
>>LISA: One of the Facebook
questions coming in
is basically saying, how can
we use these powerful words?
And what can be-- we
begin to say collectively
to help the environment?
>>VIRTUE: OK, so this is--
just like the analogy of when
you say you have a
fever, it's the same
with the world's environment.
And instead of saying, gee, I
wish there was peace on Earth,
or this world's going to
hell in a hand basket,
or anything like that, we have
to affirm that everything's
healed and healthy right now.
Now, it doesn't mean
that you put blinders on
and not get involved.
I vote.
I think every light worker
needs to be voting and watching
the news, but from
a place of love.
When you watch the
news, pray over
those situations instead of
getting worried or fearful
over them.
Get involved.
But at the same time, see the
world as you want it to be,
not as you fear it
might be right now.
So to hold that place
of intentionality,
to hold that place of
a higher vibration,
light, if more and more
and more people become
consciously aware
of that energy--
>>VIRTUE: To me
it's when, not if.
>>LISA: OK, it's when.
>>VIRTUE: Yes.
>>VIRTUE: That
truly-- you really
think that that can shift.
>>VIRTUE: I know it is here,
And I know that's why I'm here
and why you're here and
why many of us are here,
is to lead the way through
periods of darkness, where
there are certain
people who have,
shall we say, selfish motives,
who are artificially creating
recessions and wars to
distract us from our path
and to make us forget love.
>>LISA: Could it be
the more powerful
we get with the positivity,
that the more the darkness would
suppress that?
>>VIRTUE: Well, they're
kicking and screaming
right now on their
way out the door.
So the darkness has just
about lost its reign.
And we as light workers have
got to finish the job now
by doing it for ourselves.
>>LISA: By holding the space.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, we can't
control other people.
We can't make anyone else happy.
But we can take care of
our own little corner
and make ourselves
happy and peaceful.
And then if you do
that and I do that
and everyone watching does that,
then we've got a happy world.
And it just-- it
doesn't take everyone
being happy to make this happen,
to push it over the edge.
It's very much the
hundredth monkey syndrome.
It's if enough of
us do it, it's going
to tip the scale
in that direction.
>>LISA: So you
start with yourself.
And you start with
your own home.
>>VIRTUE: That's the only
thing you can control.
You cannot control anyone else.
>>LISA: That makes sense.
And by doing that,
you also start
with changing your languaging.
And we have this slide of what
the positive words look like.
>>VIRTUE: Yes.
>>LISA: And I wanted to
follow it up with that.
>>VIRTUE: Right.
Yeah, so look how high
vibrating in contrast these are.
>>LISA: The frequency-- so the
highest one on the scale is
"love."
>>VIRTUE: Well, "love"
is very, very high
frequency, yes, as most people
would intuitively guess,
as is "joy." "Bliss" is super,
super high vibrating, which
means happiness.
And the angels have told me, and
the computer graph backs it up,
that bliss and happiness
is our purpose in prayer.
But there's actually one that
we find was the most positive,
the most high vibrating.
>>LISA: Which one is that?
>>VIRTUE: I think that's--
there we go. "Peace."
>>LISA: "Peace."
>>VIRTUE: "Peace."
And it's got kind
of a double impact
there for a
single-syllable word.
It almost in the middle looks
like a white dove flying,
which is the archetypal symbol.
>>LISA: That's one
single word, "peace?"
>>VIRTUE: "Peace," yup.
Mhm.
>>LISA: It does look
like a-- so what
is the peace, the
dip in the middle
of the frequency of the word?
>>VIRTUE: It's just so powerful
that it doubles and multiplies.
>>LISA: That's wonderful.
>>VIRTUE: That's, you
know, how life is born.
So this is really
what we're here for.
And the ego wants to tell
us that, I can be peaceful,
I can be happy if
everything's perfect out here.
If there's no more
wars, the environment's
cleaned up, if I pay my
bills or the economy's
better, if I get
published or I'm a healer,
then I'll be happy.
That's the ego's big lie.
The higher self says,
I'm already happy.
I'm already peaceful.
Because I was made in
the image and likeness
of the happy, peaceful creator.
>>LISA: So the survival and
the scarcity and the fear all
comes from the ego?
>>VIRTUE: Absolutely.
The ego's very life force is the
belief in separation from God,
which is the most terrifying
thought anyone could have,
that we would be
separated from our source.
Fortunately that's not possible.
It's just an illusion.
>>LISA: I don't want to be
in this place of a Pollyanna
thinker.
I don't want to think
that the world is glossy
and I'm looking at it
through rose-colored glasses.
>>VIRTUE: It's not.
It's not right now.
>>LISA: It's not.
>>VIRTUE: There's things that
need to be cleaned up big time.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>VIRTUE: And I'm
the first to see it.
I read the news.
I'm very involved
in what's going on.
And I have human emotions.
I get very upset by dolphins
washing up on a beach.
But I know that if we go
into fear or worry or blame,
that that makes things worse.
We're pouring
gasoline on the fire.
>>LISA: But when we're
subject to those things,
with the domination models where
we're being told to do things
or we're being limited
or we're being capped,
it reinforces that feeling
of being controlled,
of the domination model.
How do you use this positive
vibration, the angelic realm,
all you talk about, to
be able to overcome that?
>>VIRTUE: Each of us has
our own guides and angels,
and we've got to be
talking to them much more
often than we are.
The angels want to help us.
And each of us can
ask that question,
how can I be more at peace?
How can I be more focused?
How can I understand that
I truly am unlimited,
that no one can control me?
Because God created
me free and powerful.
And that all of these things
that are going on in the world
that we would consider
evil or negative
is a force of darkness trying
to distract us from our path
and trying to convince us
that we are not powerful.
And if we allow
them to distract us,
then we have wasted
our time here on Earth.
We've got to get it
together now and remember
that we are-- each and
every one of us, no matter
how much money you
make, no matter
what your educational background
is, no matter how old or young
you are, I don't care what your
circumstances are physically,
you are powerful being who
can save the world today
if you'll just know that.
>>LISA: And to do that--
and how do you do that?
>>VIRTUE: Well, your angels
will tell you specifically
your own guidance.
But what they've told me is
the key to highest vibration is
to be grateful for at least
one thing in every moment
and really watch out for this,
oh, everything's falling apart,
it's terrible, which
lowers your vibration.
Guilt lowers your vibration.
Your contribution to the
world is essential right now.
All of us together do this.
And you remember the Dr. Seuss
character Horton Hears a Who?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>VIRTUE: And it
was a little girl--
>>LISA: A speck, yeah.
>>VIRTUE: Right, that
saved-- the speck.
And so one person
watching today who
makes that decision--
I'm happy, I'm
going to enjoy this
moment no matter
what's going on around
me-- can save the world.
>>LISA: Well, there
are many people
who are commenting on
Facebook and Twitter,
saying yes, they agree.
This is a beautiful
conversation.
A lot of support coming in.
And I'm grateful for
you in this moment.
>>VIRTUE: Thank you.
>>LISA: We're going
to take a quick break.
When we come back,
we're going to talk more
about the archangels.
We're going to
learn more about how
to set your intention for
a specific object or thing
that you want in your life
or feeling or intention
that you want in your
life, when we come back
with Doreen Virtue.
We'll be right back.
I'm Lisa Garr.
You're watching
"Gaiam Inspirations."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA: Welcome back.
I'm Lisa Garr.
And my guest is angel
therapist, Doreen Virtue,
and also psychologist.
And we were talking about the
power of words and the impact
that that makes on us,
both of our inner thoughts
and the words that we
say and that we express
and how that creates
different things
in our lives and the
outcome that it has.
And also, how does all this
tie into the angelic realm?
>>VIRTUE: Well, the angels
are each of our guides
that can help us to
choose empowering words.
And it's real easy, especially
if you're sensitive,
to be affected by other
people's energies, both
the global energies
and individual.
So if you get into a space
where you are complaining,
for instance, or you
feel like a victim,
it's sometimes hard
to find your way out.
And you can ask
the angels to help
you to switch, like
a remote control,
to your higher self,
where you're automatically
more positive.
>>LISA: What are you
feeling right this second?
What are you feeling in
this moment, right here?
What are the angels
telling you right now?
>>VIRTUE: Well, the angels
are saying that for all of us
to keep going.
We've all signed up to
come into a physical body
at this time in
the Earth's history
when the tides are changing.
It's like a weather change
or a seasonal change.
It can be uncomfortable.
I mean, clearly 2012
energy is much more
easy to deal than
2011, and 2013 and '14
will become increasingly
easier, provided
you let go of trying
to control things.
Because the universe right
now is washing away anything
that is done or
inauthentic or unhealthy.
And if we try and
hang onto it, that's
when we get into trouble
and uncomfortable feelings.
>>LISA: What about
the things that
are inauthentic and unhealthy,
things like chemtrails,
things like dark energies.
How do we positively
overcome them?
>>VIRTUE: Well, fortunately
darkness can no longer hide.
So it used to be that these
dishonest and cruel things
would be hidden and we
wouldn't find out about them
till after the fact.
Now they're immediately
discovered and talked about.
So most people are
aware of chemtrails
and other very cruel
and evil things that
are being perpetuated
by a tiny, few people.
It's very analogous-- now,
this might sound very far out,
but this is my research
that I believe in,
that we've gone through
this same scenario
before in Atlantis, where
the government started
to become land hungry and
wanted to take over the world.
And we were passive.
We were all peace and love,
and we didn't want to speak up.
And the government,
sure enough, blew up
Atlantis with these
giant crystals
we used to use back then, and
the sun coming through it,
trying to take over
other locations.
We can't make that
mistake again.
We can't be passive.
But we also don't want to be
coming from a place of fear.
So this is the
balance that's here,
is that we have to speak
our truth, but with love,
starting right with our
personal relationships.
So first of all, you speak your
truth with love to yourself.
You have to be
honest with yourself.
And then the people
who are closest to you,
we don't steamroll them with
blasting them with our truth.
There's a positive,
loving way to always
say your truth to other people,
owning your own feelings,
not saying, you make me
feel this feel this way.
You'd say, I feel this way.
>>LISA: Right
>>VIRTUE: And then
we expand from there.
We tell our city
council how we feel.
And then we tell our senators
and our governors how we feel
and the media and our
doctors and our educators.
And we keep going.
And I think this is what the
whole Occupy Movement, which
I big support financially
and otherwise-- love
to see more grassroots
movements along this line.
>>LISA: And there's
a specific archangel
that you can intend to in
those types of movements.
>>VIRTUE: That's right.
>>LISA: For leadership and--
>>VIRTUE: Yeah,
Archangel Michael
is huge for giving you the
courage and the confidence
and the support that you need
to make healthful life changes.
Many, many people are
going through-- they're
moving to a new home.
They're changing careers,
relationships, lifestyle
patterns.
And it can feel intimidating.
And you wonder, how am
I going to pay for this?
Or will I be OK?
And Michael will just let you
know that you can do this.
You'll be safe.
You'll be fine.
I'll be here.
>>LISA: So that's for in that
time of massive transition,
having an intention to
the Archangel Michael.
How would you say that?
What would you--
>>VIRTUE: Well,
I'm glad you asked.
First of all, let me just
explain for anyone new to this
that Archangel Michael
is holographic.
And so he can be with
every single person who
calls on him at the same
time, having with each of us
a unique and
individual experience.
So please don't feel afraid
that you're wasting his time
or taking him away
from someone else.
>>LISA: Or whatever
you're saying
is not as important as-- yes.
>>VIRTUE: There's no limits.
Right.
Yeah.
So all you have to
do, really, is you can
either say, God, please
send me an angel,
or I think it's really
helpful to know the players
and know the different
specialties of the angels.
That's what I teach about.
And so Archangel
Michael would be the one
to call if you're
afraid or you want
protection or strength
or confidence.
>>LISA: Let's learn about
some of these angels.
Because you have a whole
card deck about them.
>>VIRTUE: I do.
The new Angel Tarot deck,
which-- the Angel Tarot cards
are Radleigh Valentine
and Steve A. Roberts.
It's our answer to
traditional tarot.
It's the same 78-card
system as you'd
find with Rider-Waite,
but 100% positive, gentle,
and safe pictures,
words, and symbols.
>>LISA: And you also learn about
the archangels in the meantime.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, it's
like flash cards.
So the major arcana, we
used the archangels for.
And then the different
elements, we have mermaids,
dragons, unicorns for
the swords, and fairies.
And it goes into the shadows.
It's not sugarcoated in any way.
It's still the same
accurate, detailed messages
you'd get from
traditional tarot.
But for instance, the
High Priestess card,
we have the archangel Haniel.
Her name means "grace of God."
She has been revered
as the full moon
goddess since the
time of Babylon.
And so in this card, she
helps you with your intuition.
And so if you wanted
to be more clairvoyant,
you'd say Archangel
Haniel, please
help me to open up my
spiritual sight and third eye.
>>LISA: So as our Facebook
questions are coming in,
how do I set intentions
with these angels?
This is one of the ways.
So that specific angel,
Haniel, Archangel Haniel--
>>VIRTUE: Each of the
archangels has a specialty.
So it's very helpful to
know who to call for what.
>>LISA: That's great.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
>>LISA: All right.
Let's take a look
at the next one.
>>VIRTUE: OK, so
here's the Empress.
And these are traditional
names for the cards.
Some of the other
card names we changed
to make them more positive.
Empress is always about
birth of something new.
She's about abundance.
And we used Archangel
Gabriel, who
is the messenger angel, who
in all Renaissance paintings
and in my experience
is always a female.
I think Constantine did a little
sex change operation on her
for some of the Bible.
>>LISA: So it's either
Gabrielle or Gabriel.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
Gabrielle, the female archangel
who I work with and I see,
is an angel of
femininity and nurturing.
>>LISA: OK.
And so when you are
setting intentions
to the Archangel Gabriel--
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, so
Gabriel would be
wonderful to call on
if you're a writer
and you want to have more
motivation or more information.
>>LISA: Creativity.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
More creativity.
She also works with parents.
If you want to adopt or
you want to conceive,
she's brilliant at that.
And she helps with all aspects
of pregnancy and child rearing.
>>LISA: One of our Facebook
questions coming in
is asking about how do you
parent a child who is sensitive
like you were as a child?
And how do you not
suppress that type
of creativity in that child?
>>VIRTUE: One of
the things my dad
did that I'll always love
him for is he would take me
to-- when we would drive to
go to the store or the post
office, he would
say, OK use your gut
to find me the parking place.
And he would let me drive from
the passenger seat by saying,
go down this lane.
And he would do certain
games like that where
we'd walked through the
house, he'd hide something,
and he'd say, OK, feel with
your body where I hid it.
And he really helped me to
hone my intuition in that way,
in a loving, gentle way.
>>LISA: Oh, that's a great idea.
There's a lot of them.
You have a whole book
on crystal children--
>>VIRTUE: I do.
>>LISA: --and how to
raise crystal children,
angel children.
So Archangel Haniel
is the one to pray to
for parenting things
and creativity.
>>VIRTUE: Gabriel.
>>LISA: Gabriel.
>>VIRTUE: Gabriel, uh-huh,
is one for parenting,
as well as Metatron,
to help keep
your spiritual gifts awake.
>>LISA: This is
Archangel Metatron.
This is the card.
>>VIRTUE: Right,
and so here, again,
is a traditional arcana
card, the Chariot,
which is about achievement,
public recognition, will power,
self-discipline.
And Metatron is the first
angel of the kabbalah,
because he's about the
beginning of the spiritual path
on the tree of
life or sephiroth.
And he's traditionally
the angel to call upon
for highly gifted
children, such as what
we call indigos and
crystal children.
>>LISA: What about guidance?
What about focus?
>>VIRTUE: Metatron's
really good for focus.
He's good with mental powers.
And so he can help
you to visualize.
He can help you to do some of
the very high-level spiritual
gifts, such as remote viewing
or things along those lines.
>>LISA: Interesting.
So that's ways to connect
directly with the divine.
>>VIRTUE: Well,
one of the reasons
is Metatron was one of two
archangels who was actually
a human being at one time.
He was the prophet Enoch.
And so he remembers what
it's like to be a human.
And he knows how to bridge
the divine and the human world
very well.
>>LISA: One of our
Facebook questions
coming in here from Michelle
is basically saying,
how do I use these
cards in order
to set intentions
or ask questions?
>>VIRTUE: Well, they work
like any Oracle card deck.
In fact, you can mix them
in with my other decks.
That's why we made
them this size.
>>LISA: Great.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
And so a lot of
people who do not
know how to use tarot, like
the Celtic Cross layout,
are just choosing a card.
They say, what do
I need to know?
And pulling one out.
And it's amazingly accurate.
This deck just
came out last week,
and it's already going
in its third printing.
>>LISA: So can you
set an intention,
and then you mix the card up
with the intention in mind,
or the question--
>>VIRTUE: Yes.
>>LISA: --and then lay the
cards out and see what comes?
>>VIRTUE: Exactly.
Or you can do it the other way.
Let's say that you want
to manifest abundance.
You can take the Empress
card and you can put it next
to your nightstand
or under your pillow.
And it will help you to
create that intention
the other direction.
>>LISA: It's just
a different form
of prayer, intention setting.
All right, that's great.
So one of the other
cards that we mentioned
that you talked about is
the Archangel Michael.
>>VIRTUE: Yay.
>>LISA: And now
this is the Wheel.
That looked really interesting.
>>VIRTUE: Yes.
The wheel, again, is
traditional major arcana
from the tarot, which means
it's a time of positive change.
And many of us are going
through huge changes.
Many people tell me they feel
overwhelmed with the energies.
And so Archangel Michael
can make the change less
frightening and more grounded
and help you to feel supported
as you're-- for instance,
people who are leaving one job
and going to another, and
they worry about money.
That's the last thing you want
to do is worry about money.
Because then you'll attract
more things to worry about.
You want to affirm
abundance, and that's
the time you want to be giving
donations to the charity.
>>LISA: Deb is asking this.
It's a great question.
How do you come up
with these phrases
around the archangels
and the intentions?
How do you write that?
>>VIRTUE: Well,
I mean, I've done
a lot of research of spiritual
scripts from every religion.
And I've been talking
to angels since I
was as young as I can remember.
I cannot remember a time
when I didn't talk to angels.
So this is lifelong.
And then when I get a vision
of a book or a card deck,
the whole thing
comes to me at once.
I see the title, the cover.
I get the essence and the
energy of what it's about.
And then it's just a matter of
sitting down at the computer
and typing it out.
>>LISA: I mean, you've
done that 70 times.
You have over 70 books.
>>VIRTUE: I don't know how many.
That's a guess.
>>LISA: Amazing.
>>VIRTUE: I was
hoping one of your--
>>LISA: Facebook questions--
>>VIRTUE: Yeah,
would go to Amazon
and count it up and
then let us know.
>>LISA: It's amazing.
Well, I know that you have
an enormous amount of books
and people who are such faithful
followers of your information,
because you make it practical.
>>VIRTUE: That's one of the
things that I really find
important is that there's-- I
think it's important to have
all kinds of spiritual teaching.
But to me what is
important is how does it
help you to have a
better Monday afternoon?
How does it help you
be a better parent?
>>LISA: The highest
suicide day of the week.
>>VIRTUE: Really?
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Yes, it is.
>>VIRTUE: Oh, that's sad.
>>LISA: It is.
So this is absolutely
a way, a tool,
to be able to-- it doesn't
matter if you're skeptic,
if you've never heard of
archangels in your life.
>>VIRTUE: No.
You don't have to
call them angels even.
The same skills
you can use to talk
to your Aunt Ruth in heaven
or God or higher self.
It's all the same skills
to tap into the divine.
>>LISA: Can you really do that?
Can you use these
types of intentions
to speak with people who
you've lost, loved ones?
>>VIRTUE: Oh, yeah.
It's the same four ways
that the angels talk
to us as Aunt Ruth would or
your dog who passed or Jesus
or whoever you want to talk to.
You just ask a
question, and then you
notice what feelings
come into your body,
emotional and physical feelings.
And just take a moment with
them and ask your body,
what are you trying to tell me?
You can write it down,
even, if you want.
And you don't have
to understand it.
And then if you need
more information,
keep asking the questions
until you get enough
that you feel satisfied with.
And then if you doubt it,
ask them to give you a sign.
And they will.
>>LISA: There is a
specific archangel
for that, for asking
for help, isn't there?
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
>>LISA: That is the
archangel "Ragwell?"
>>VIRTUE: Archangel Raguel
is good for relationships.
There's Archangel Chamuel,
who helps with anything
that you've lost.
He's analogous to Saint
Anthony in Catholicism.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>VIRTUE: And each
archangel, as I said,
has different specifics.
You don't have to
know who they are.
You can simply say, God,
please send me an angel.
It's done.
I just think that
it's interesting.
And I feel really close
to all these angels,
because I can see them
and recognize them.
And it just makes you feel
really safe and loved.
>>LISA: And this specific one is
about the release, archangel--
>>VIRTUE: Right.
This is Azrael, who is the--
>>LISA: Excuse me.
>>VIRTUE: He's known
as the angel of death.
Not in a scary way,
but he's the angel
who helps us to cross over.
>>LISA: I just released
that cough, yes.
Of course.
>>VIRTUE: And
Azrael also helps us
to speak to people
who are bereaved.
So if you have to give
a speech at a funeral
or you're counseling
someone who's grieving,
Azrael can help you
to choose those words.
The Release card in our
Angel Tarot card deck
is really about the
end of something.
The door is closing; let it go.
And that's so true for
so many people right now.
Take a deep breath.
Let it go.
>>LISA: Release the old.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, don't
hang on or try to control.
>>LISA: Right.
And to bring in the new.
That's a very-- when
anyone's in that position,
especially when
you've lost a loved
one, to be able to
release the pain.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
And the only way to
do it is to feel it.
>>LISA: Mm.
Absolutely.
>>VIRTUE: It's authenticity.
The watchword is be authentic.
>>LISA: And then what about when
you want to create something
like balance in your life?
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, well.
The Balance card, of course,
is traditional in Tarot.
And we've got
Archangel Zadkiel, who
I call the gingko biloba
of the angel world.
Because he's the
angel of good memory.
He helps you to remember
where your car keys are.
who you are spiritually.
He helps you to remember
someone's name or phone number.
He's wonderful for students
who are taking a test.
People have told me they put
the Zadkiel card next to them
when they're taking the
test, and they nail it.
They ace it.
>>LISA: They remember things.
>>VIRTUE: They do, yeah.
>>LISA: And can
you also create--
if you don't know how to
create something like balance,
you can ask for help?
>>VIRTUE: Absolutely, yeah.
So when the Balance card comes
up from the Angel Tarot cards,
it's really about getting a
balance between moderation
and excess, cooperating,
even sometimes compromising.
And it might mean to take
a pause for perfect timing
instead of trying to push
or control through something
faster than it wants to happen.
>>LISA: So these
cards can represent
any type of intention setting.
If people don't
have the cards, they
can do this themselves, right?
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
You don't need any books.
You don't need any people.
You don't need any cards.
Everyone is already
connected to their angels.
Really what I think I
do more than anything
is help people to trust the
messages they already get
and I help to
validate it and then
to help people to
get clearer channels
of divine communication.
The angels have said that
it's really important for us
all to be hooked in right now.
Because it's the emergency
broadcast system.
>>LISA: Hooked into the
angels or to each other?
>>VIRTUE: Hooked into the
angels which is each other.
We're one in spiritual truth.
They want us to really practice
mind-to-mind communication
with our loved
ones, with angels.
>>LISA: And anyone can do this?
>>VIRTUE: Oh, absolutely.
I've been teaching psychic
development and angel therapy
courses since 1996
around the world
to people of every single age
group, from 9 years old to 90
and in every religious
background, even a couple
atheists and people who are
on drugs and everything.
Anyone can do this.
There's no blocks or barriers
except for someone who has
decided that they
don't want to or can't.
>>LISA: I've known you to show
up at bookstores unannounced
and go in and start
speaking to people.
And their eyes light up.
They see something,
a communication
that they have maybe
never received before
and have thought that they
were weird for thinking,
or shut out, completely
denied and eliminated
as anything that
exists in their lives.
Absolutely.
And I've been that way, too.
I completely forget
about guidance.
I think that I'm in charge.
And when I wake up
and realize I'm not,
I always say, why
did I forget that?
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, well the
bigger someone's purpose,
the louder their ego is.
There's a one on
one correlation.
You've got a huge
purpose, so your ego
is working overtime
to make you forget.
>>LISA: It thinks it knows what
it's doing and has everything
under control, and it doesn't.
>>LISA: It's real seductive.
You know, the ego says, if
do this, you'll be happy.
But it's always got that future
orientation of happiness.
Your higher self is
happy already right now.
>>LISA: That is absolutely true.
And I create more
in stillness than I
do with lining up
57 to-do lists.
Absolutely.
Because it's when I'm connected
to source and the divine,
absolutely.
You are a big water
baby, aren't you?
You have a love of
affinity with the water.
>>VIRTUE: I have a big
I live in Hawaii on the ocean.
I grew up in Southern
California on the ocean,
and I'm an ocean philanthropist
and environmentalist.
I absolutely feel
like we need to take
care of our ocean system now.
It's the lungs of
the Earth, and it
controls the weather
and everything.
And so I do a lot of speaking
out about how to help.
And one of the things I
do to help draw attention
to environmentalism is
my girlfriends and I,
we actually have mermaid
tails with monofins in them
that we swim in in the ocean.
We recently had the joy
and pleasure of swimming
with the ocean artist Wyland.
>>LISA: Oh, what an experience.
>>VIRTUE: It was really fun.
>>LISA: Look at the pictures.
That's gorgeous.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah,
that's me in a tail
made by my friend Mike
Van Daal of FlipTails
and is a real monofin in there.
You can swim really
fast with this tail.
>>LISA: And this is a
photo taken by Wyland?
>>VIRTUE: By Wyland himself.
I took a lot of classes of
free diving to do this safely,
because I'm diving
to-- sometimes
we go to about 60
feet on one breath,
and you don't want
to do that unless you
know what you're doing.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>VIRTUE: But it
really connected me
to memories of Atlantis.
And there's a video
on YouTube anyone
can see if they type in
"Wyland" and "mermaids."
And they can see me
swimming on that.
And actually I'm a scuba
dive master with PADI,
and I don't scuba dive
hardly ever anymore.
Because it's--
>>LISA: Because you
can get to the bottom.
>>VIRTUE: It's so much
more fun to be a mermaid.
It really evokes
that goddess feeling.
And there's men who do it, too.
And anyone who wants to do
it can go on eBay and type
in "swimmable mermaid tail"
and find an introductory tail
for just a couple hundred bucks.
It's worth it.
>>LISA: It's absolutely--
>>VIRTUE: It is otherworldly.
If I could get angel wings
that fly, I would do that, too.
>>LISA: So instead
you went to the water
with the tail and the fin.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, exactly.
>>LISA: I've seen
you in that fin,
and it's absolutely beautiful.
>>VIRTUE: Thank you.
>>LISA: I remember I was sitting
with you in the blue Caribbean.
>>VIRTUE: That's right.
>>LISA: And I'll always
remember that image of you.
>>VIRTUE: With your
beautiful mermaid daughter.
>>LISA: My mermaid daughter and
with your fin and the blue--
it's this color.
That was one of the
reasons I wore this color.
Because it reminds me of you.
We actually have a card of the--
>>VIRTUE: Oh, yes.
Nine of Water.
And in tarot, Nine of Water
means your wishes come true.
And so the artist depicted--
that's an actual picture of me
that he painted of me
as a mermaid, which--
thank you, Steve and
Radleigh, for doing that.
>>LISA: Absolutely beautiful.
Actually, one of the Facebook
questions coming in from Cora--
and thank you, by the way, for
connecting with us on Facebook,
a lot of questions coming
in, you have a lot of fans--
is asking about the iPhone app.
>>VIRTUE: Yes.
>>LISA: How does that work?
>>VIRTUE: OK, well, on
the iPhone app store,
most of my cards are available.
My book "Angel Numbers 101,"
where you type in the numbers
from the angels, it tells
you the meanings-- is an app.
And my children's book will soon
be an app, "Thank You, Angels."
They're asking
probably when will
Angel Tarot Cards be an app.
And Hay House has told me
that it'll be a little while.
>>LISA: So if we see symbols
out there with sequences
of numbers, that
means that the angels
are communicating with us?
>>VIRTUE: It's one of
the most common ways
that the angels
give us messages.
Like if you see 444,
it's them saying,
the angels, we're with you.
And 333, the ascended
masters are with you.
>>LISA: So the app tells
you what the numbers mean.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
So you can type in
any three-digit number
from 0 to 999.
And just type it into this
Angel Numbers 101 app.
And it'll give you the full-on
meaning of what's going on.
It's amazingly accurate.
>>LISA: How did you come
up with the meaning?
>>LISA: I'm a good listener.
I mean, a lot of it is
traditional numerology.
In my past life, investigations
of where I've been,
I was a student of Pythagoras.
And in this life, I'm a
student of Pythagoras, too.
And he was one of
the first to say
this is a mathematically
precise world.
And everything
vibrates numerically.
And it's true.
>>LISA: Do you see things
in geometric shapes?
>>VIRTUE: Yes, I do.
And I often see shapes very
similar to the Gaiam logo.
And they've told me
that's the building
blocks of the universe.
And it goes back to
the platonic solids.
Plato said that there's only
a certain number of shapes
that are part of
the whole world.
And you can look at things like
the golden ratio of any circles
in nature, like a tree
trunk or a nautilus
and the distance
between planets.
And it's got the same
numbers everywhere.
So it is precise.
And everything is
in divine order,
despite what you
might see on the news.
And I know that
there's things that
need our attention and help.
And I'm right in the--
>>LISA: Mix of it all.
>>VIRTUE: I'm right
there working on it.
I'm giving money and
time and whatever
I can do to help and
prayers, of course.
But the main thing is
that we as light workers
are here to lift
everyone up, not
to let this stuff
bring us down, too.
Because if we're down,
we're not gonna help anyone.
>>LISA: Well that is the
main point of all of this,
is to be the light
workers, to lift people up,
and the people who are light
workers that are-- everyone is.
Everyone is that are
watching, giving a resounding,
yes, that's me.
I found my people.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
>>LISA: Essentially, because
this is how we collectively
give a voice to this.
>>VIRTUE: Right
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Well, I just-- I had
to throw that in.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah, no, thank you.
Your purpose is
enormous to balance
some of the negativity
going out on the media
with your beautiful
show and Gaiam TV.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>VIRTUE: So thank you
for doing this, Lisa.
I hope everyone
continues to tune in.
>>LISA: That is what
Gaiam is up to as well.
So along with the symbols and
the shapes and the numbers,
can you tell us what
to look forward to as
we approach this
2012 time in history
and the symbolism around
this time in history.
>>VIRTUE: Well, the way
that we can see the future
is through the children
coming in right now,
the children that we call
the crystal, sometimes
star seeds or rainbow.
The name isn't important.
But I've spent a lot
of time with teachers
who've taught in the school
system for 20 or more years,
talking to them about how
children have changed.
I've interviewed parents
and the children themselves.
And these new
children coming in,
they're like little
saints and Buddhas.
They are 100% forgiving, and
they do not hold grudges.
The only kind of ego they might
have would be that they-- you
could say it's law of
attraction or judgment
if someone's heart
is open or not.
That's all they care about.
>>LISA: Yes, and they are in
the moment, fully present.
>>VIRTUE: Completely.
I know your daughter is
definitely a crystal.
And they really resonate
with senior citizens
and animals and trees.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>VIRTUE: And they
have such compassion.
And what they really
want is for everyone
to be at peace and happy.
And that's who's going
to grow up and be
the adults of this planet.
>>LISA: So if you don't
have a crystal child
or if you're not
a crystal child,
then how do you perpetuate
this type of light worker
or perpetuation of
growth on the planet?
>>VIRTUE: Literally to
be as crystal child.
>>LISA: To be, as an adult--
>>VIRTUE: To be like one.
>>LISA: OK.
That makes sense.
>>VIRTUE: If you look--
my hero, by living hero,
is His Holiness the Dalai Lama.
>>LISA: Why is that?
>>VIRTUE: I had the opportunity
to get a blessing from him
and meet him.
And it was like meeting
the most highly evolved
five-year-old boy man
that I've ever met.
His inner child is so
awakened and alive.
And he's so filled
with happiness,
despite all the tragedies he
and his country have endured.
>>LISA: Yes.
Right.
>>VIRTUE: And he knows that
that's the key to saving us,
is that high
vibrational happiness
and that childlikeness.
>>LISA: He's constantly
in a state of laughter.
>>VIRTUE: He is.
And bliss.
And he's very childlike.
And I really think
that children teach us
how to enjoy the moment, how to
keep our imagination wide open,
how to play, how to be
silly, how to imagine things,
to be creative.
I mean, can you imagine
a world like that?
I can.
>>LISA: Well, yes.
And there are many
progressive schools
that are catching up to
that way of teaching,
which is wonderful to see.
There's a lot of them
here in Colorado.
And they're really
picking up on what
it means to teach to
those types of children
and letting go so
much of the testing
or putting a little bit
less of an emphasis on that.
Although it takes
a journey on that.
>>VIRTUE: It does, yeah.
>>LISA: It is absolutely.
And it takes a village as well.
So in terms of the
way that people
can find out about
you, your website.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah,
angeltherapy.com.
I'm touring all the time,
giving angel readings
by audiences in my workshops.
I'm on my way to Europe at
the end of this month in May.
>>LISA: Wonderful.
>>VIRTUE: Big tour
there, into Canada
and on all around the US and
Australia and Japan this year.
>>LISA: Oh, gosh.
There's a wonderful
question coming in here
from Gil saying, how
do we thank the angels?
That's a great question.
>>VIRTUE: The angels don't
need us to thank them.
Their reward is if we're happy.
>>LISA: So that's how
we thank the angels.
>>VIRTUE: Yeah.
They said that when
we say thank you,
we're doing it for ourselves.
>>LISA: Hm.
Is that the ego again?
>>VIRTUE: It's really--
it's giving gratitude.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>VIRTUE: And gratitude's
the higher self.
It's a form of love.
>>LISA: Well, I want you, if you
can, just for the last minute
that we have remaining
here, you have an intention
that you'd like to set with us.
>>VIRTUE: Absolutely.
There's so much light and love
in your powerful audience,
everyone watching today.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>VIRTUE: I would love to
collect it and send it out
to our beautiful planet.
>>LISA: Great idea, yes.
>>VIRTUE: So let's
start with our own peace
by taking in some
deep breaths together.
And on the inhale, just
drawing in the beautiful prana,
the light and the love
that's in you and around you.
And on each exhale,
letting go of anything
that could be low energy--
fear, worries, stress, anything
that's been bothering you,
just let it go. [EXHALES]
Your heart is the
gateway, or the portal,
to home, where you've come
from, where your soul is still
one with God.
And let's open that portal
of your heart right now.
It's safe for you to love.
It's safe for you
to open your heart.
It's safe for you to feel.
The angels are protecting you.
And let us together
unite this light
and love coming
through our heart,
sending it out to our
loved ones, to each other,
deep into the core
of our Mother Earth,
and blanketing this
beautiful planet,
and seeing the world as
it truly is spiritually,
like we all are, healed.
Namaste and peace to you, to
our planet, and to everyone.
>>LISA: Thank you so much.
Thank you for your
beautiful heart.
words of wisdom.
Thank you for your teachings.
Thank you for your inspiration.
>>VIRTUE: Thank you, Lisa.
>>LISA: It's so
beautifully appropriate
for our "Gaiam Inspirations."
Thank you so much.
>>VIRTUE: My absolute pleasure.
>>LISA: Doreen.
And if you'd like to share
this with your friends
or have any of your friends
watch the replay of this,
go to GaiamTV.com.
You can watch a full 90-minute
interview with Doreen
and I talking in depth about the
angels and about angel words.
And that's by going
to GaiamTV.com.
You can sign up for
a free trial there.
And you could see a lot more
thought-provoking interviews
there as well.
Thank you so much for sharing
with us this afternoon
and for joining us.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.